# Non-macro library

In the non-macro part of the cflp library, we have two structs (`Error` and `NodeWrapper`), and two traits (`Parser` and `NodeData`)

## Traits

### `Parser`

```rust
pub trait Parser<I, C: PartialEq<C>, R = Self> {
	fn parse<T>(src: &mut T) -> Result<R, Error<I, C>> where
            T: Iterator<Item=I> + Clone,
            Self: Sized {
        <Self as Parser<I, C, R>>::parse_with_recursion(false)
    }
    
    fn parse_with_recursion<T>(src: &mut T) -> Result<R, Error<I, C>> where
            T: Iterator<Item=I> + Clone,
            Self: Sized;
}
```

The `Parser` trait is used to parse a token stream (of type `T`) into either a `Self` instance, or fail to do so and return an error.

You should only ever use `Parser::parse`. `Parser::parse_with_recursion` is where all the actual derived code goes. Without `parse_with_recursion`, we can end up with stack overflows. `parse_with_recursion` should prevent [zero-consumption branching](#zero-consumption-branching).

### `NodeData`

```rust
pub trait NodeData<T: Sized> {
	fn start(&self) -> T;
	fn end(&self) -> T;
}
```

The `NodeData` trait is used to obtain positional data about a node. This is intended for tokens used in the [`Parser`](#parser) trait, but can be applied to parsed nodes as well.

## Structs

### `Error`

```rust
pub struct Error<F, E> {
	pub found: Option<F>,
	pub expected: E
}
```

The `Error` struct is returned from [`Parser::parse`](#parser) when parsing fails. The `expected` field is for the element expected, and the `found` field is the element found. This is an `Option` because the iterator could return a `None`.

Here we'll introduce simple rule syntax. This will include matching types, optional sections, Kleene closures, and positive closures.

We'll be using the following struct as our example token

```rust
pub enum Token {
    OB, CB,     // Opening and closing parenthesis
    Value(u8),  // A literal value
    Other(char) // Some character
}
```

## Matching something

If you want to match a token, add the token you want to match to the rule. Simple as that. For example if we wanted to match `Token::OB` in our rule, we'd have `(RuleName; Token::OB)`.

## Groups

A group is a set of rules inside some parentheses. These can be complex nested groups with lots of modifiers applied to each inner group, or just contain a single value such as `(Token::Value(2))`.

## Optional sections

An optional section is one that can optionally be included in the input. The parser is a maximal-munch parser and will always try to match these optional sections.

To indicate an optional section, you add a `?` to the end of a **group** for example `(Token::Other('a'))?`.

## Kleene and positive closures

A Kleene closure is one that will match the inner section 0 or more times, and a positive closure will match the inner section at least once. These are indicated in a similar way to optional sections but with a `*` for a Kleene closure and `+` for a positive closure.

---

# Zero-consumption branching

Consider the following:

```rust
#[derive(PartialEq, PartialEqRef)]
enum Token {
    Add,
    Num(i64),
    Str(String)
}

#[derive(Parser)]
#[parser(Token, Token)]
enum Expr {
    #[parser([[@Expr]], Token::Add, [[@Expr]])]
    Add {
        left: Box<Self>,
        right: Box<Self>
    },
    #[parser([@ExprLit])]
    Literal(ExprLit)
}

#[derive(Parser)]
#[parser(Token, Token)]
enum ExprLit {
    #[parser([Token::Num(t)])]
    Number(i64),
    #[parser([Token::Str(t)])]
    String(String)
}
```

This can lead to _zero-consumption branching_ if we call `Expr::parse`, so-called because it consumes zero elements in `src` and branches the program. This is because it will try to first parse an `Expr`, leading to it trying to parse an `Expr` etc. resulting in a stack overflow. To prevent this we instead call `Parser::parse_with_recursion(src, false)` which is expected to prevent this call from trying to parse itself again.

This should not prevent calling `Parser::parse` for `Self` once something has been consumed.

If this is in your code, you will need to ensure that `C: Default`. This can be done for an enum by re-using one of the variants, since this is only required to have some value returned to prevent a stack overflow. See [example 3](https://github.com/fck-language/cflp/blob/v1.0.1/examples/example3.rs) for an example of this.
