# Derive macro

When using the derive macro to derive the `Parser` trait, you need to specify how the parser should be implemented. This is done using helper attributes (`#[parser(...)]`).

## Metadata

Metadata is just three arguments (three types and one expression) that are required to know how to derive the `Parser` impl. They're comma separated (no trailing comma) and in the following order:
1. **Input token type** `I`\
    This is the type in the iterator (behind a reference). For example if our input token type was `MyToken`, the iterator would be `T: Iterator<Item=&MyToken>`
2. **Comparison token type** `C`\
    This is the type being compared with. If your input token type contains token metadata (such as token position), then you will probably want to compare the underlying token type. Using the example from before, if we had `MyToken::type_: MyTokType` where `MyTokType` is an enum of token types, we would probably have our comparison token type as `MyTokType`
3. **Scope type** `B`\
    See [the introduction](0.start.md#errors-and-scoping) for an explanation of scoping

**IMPORTANT:** If your input and comparison types are different, then `&I: Into<C>` must be satisfied

## Rule syntax

Rules are defined as two parts; values and groups. Values are singular expressions, and groups are a group of values.

### Structs

Consider the following rule from the [first example](https://github.com/fck-language/cflp/tree/master/examples/example1.rs):
```rust
#[derive(Parser)]
#[parser(
    Token, Token, NodeType;
    ([@Value])+, [@Sep], ([@Value])*, (@Sep)?)
]
pub struct Base {
    first: Vec<Value>,
    sep: Sep,
    last: Vec<Value>
}
```

The first line in the helper attribute (line 3) is the metadata. The line after defines the rule for the parser impl. We'll consider this in segments:
1. `([@Value])+`\
    Firstly, `@Value` is a call to another rule, `Value` in this case. This will try to parse a `Value` type. Placing square brackets around this means that we save the match. The parentheses makes it a group and the `+` makes the group into a positive closure, meaning we match at least one `Value`
2. `[@Sep]`\
    This saves a `Sep` type that's matched the input
3. `([@Value])*`\
    This is the same as `([@Value])+` but for a kleene closure, meaning we match zero or more `Value` types
4. `(@Sep)?`\
    `@Sep` will match a `Sep` type. The `?` after the group means that this is optional, so it can either be matched or not

> When saving values, you might need to box a value to ensure that the type has a known size at compile time. If this is required, you can use two square brackets to indicate as such. For example, `[[@Sep]]` would match a `Sep` type and box the result (`Box<Sep>`)
 
### Groups

A group is a set of values in parentheses. It can optionally be followed by a `?`, `*`, or `+` for an optional group, kleene closure, and positive closure:
- Optional means it will try to be parsed. If it's not, then it resets the input iterator back to where it was before the group, and skips it. This becomes an `Option<T>` where `T` is the type matched by the inside of the group
- Kleene closure means it matches any number (including zero) of the group. This becomes a `Vec<T>` where `T` is the type matched by the inside of the group
- Positive closure means it matches at least one of the group. This has the same type as a kleene closure

Groups can have comma separated values. For example you could have `(TokType::Int(1), TokType::Add, TokType::Int(2))?` as a group. Groups can be nested

### Enums and unwrapping matches

Util now, all the examples have been on structs. Enums are slightly different. The enum needs the metadata in a parser attribute on the enum itself, with the rule for each enum variant in an parser attribute on the variant.

For example, we might have a simple enum to turn token literals into AST node literals

```rust
#[derive(Parser)]
#[parser(Token, Token, NodeData)]
pub enum Value {
    #[parser([Token::Digit(t)])]
    Int(usize),
    #[parser([Token::Ident(t)])]
    Ident(String)
}
```

You'll notice that the matches on the variants don't have literal values, but identifiers. This is because matches that aren't calls to other types are parsed as patterns, like in a match statement arm. The identifiers are matches just like in a match statement and used, instead of matching the whole token.

When picking identifiers, make sure they're all unique. It's also a good idea to avoid identifiers with a double underscore prefix such as `__my_var` since double underscore prefixed variables are used in the derived implementation and it may allow for things to get messed up.

#### Default values

In the example above, if neither variant could be matched, the first errore would be returned; in this case it would be that you were expecting `<usize as Default>::default()` and found something else. In this case, you have a default value (from `Default::default`) to use in the place of `t`. However, this may not always be the case. For example, you may have a keyword enum for which it would make little sense for it to implement `Default`. For any pattern, you can override using `Default::default()` in the case of an error by putting what you'd want after a semicolon for the whole pattern. For example, you might change the digit variant to have `#[parser([Token::Digit(t); Token::Digit(5)])]` as the attribute on it. This only applies to save groups. Sorry.

## Generics

If the type you're deriving `Parser` for uses generics, these will be included in the derived impl. The derived impl uses `__T` and `'__a` for the type of iterator (`src: &mut __T`) and lifetime for the item from `src`. If you have a generic type that needs to implement `Parser`, you can either place that as a constraint on the type, or use the `#[parser_constraint(F)]` attribute. This will add that `F` needs to implement `Parser` to the derived impl with lifetimes, so you won't need to include them in your type definition.
