# Node data

When parsing, it's often useful to keep track of the positions of nodes, for error handling for example. This can be achieved through the use the `NodeData` trait and the `NodeWrapper` struct.

The `NodeData` trait has two functions; `NodeData::start` and `NodeData::end` to get the start and end data of a node.

The `NodeWrapper` struct contains a node (`NodeWrapper::node`), and start and end data about that node (`NodeWrapper::start`, `NodeWrapper::end`):

```rust
#[derive(Clone)]
pub struct NodeWrapper<T: Sized, D: Sized + Clone + Default> {
    pub node: T,
    pub start: D,
    pub end: D
}
```

To make use of this, your input type must implement `NodeData`. This must be for a reference. For the example below it would be `&Token: NodeData<usize>`.

## Example

```rust
#[derive(Parser)]
#[parser(Token, TokType, NodeType, usize; ([@Add])*)]
pub struct Root(pub Vec<NodeWrapper<Add, usize>>);
```

In this example, you'll notice that there is an additional field for the metadata. This indicates that any matches should be wrapped in a `NodeWrapper` struct with positional data. The type provided is the type returned from the `NodeData` trait functions[^1].

You'll also notice that the inner section of the trait is not a `Vec<Add>`, but `Vec<NodeWrapper<Add, usize>>`. This applies for all values, except single token matches.

## Use for one, use for all

If you derive one `Parser` impl that's wrapped, all `Parser` impls that can be called from the one using it must also be wrapped.

For example, you could not have the following

```rust
#[derive(Parser)]
#[parser(Token, TokType, |t| t.t, usize; ([@Add])*)]
pub struct Root(pub Vec<NodeWrapper<Expr, usize>>);

#[derive(Parser)]
#[parser(Token, TokType, |t| t.t)]
pub enum Expr {
    /* ... */
}
```

This would cause an error because the `Root` `Parser` impl would expect that the `Expr` `Parser` impl would also be wrapped so it can access the positional data of an `Expr` match.

## `NodeData` impl requirement

If you use wrapped matches, you need to ensure that the input type of your parser (`Token` in the example above) needs to implement `NodeData` so that `Parser` impls that match tokens not calls to other types can access positional data.

---

[^1]: This could most likely be included as a generic in the `Parser` impl, but is required to ensure the correct `NodeData` impl is used in the case that there are multiple `NodeData` impls.
