# Saving values

Parsing an input is slightly meaningless if you don't save any of the data you just matched. To do this, you can put values inside square brackets. The type of match is determined by the "arguments" you provide and can either be a simple match, or an unwrapping one.

## Simple match

A simple match is one that just saves the value it matched and has the form `[Enum variant; list of types inside the variant]`. For example, you might have `[Token::OP]` to save a matched open parentheses. But what if the enum variant your matching has a value in it? In that case you just give the values you want to match, for example `[Token::Value; 3]` would match `Token::Value(3)`. The arguments for a simple match are either a literal (string literal, numerical literal, etc.), or an underscore `_`. If an underscore is given, then the rule will match anything. In the future this will be expanded to include the option of ranges.

Simple matches are also where you match the results of other types. For example if you wanted to save the match returned by `MyRule`, you would have `[@MyRule]`. These can be self-referential, and if so will return a `Box<T>` instead of the expected `T`.

## Unwrapping match

An unwrapping match looks just like a simple match but the list after the semicolon will include at least 1 type. In this case the types will be saved, not the token that matched it. For example, if you had a variant `MyEnum::MyVariant(u8, u16)` and only wanted to save the `u16` when matching it, you would have `[MyEnum::MyVariant; _, u16]`.

When an unwrapping match fails, the returned error needs to give values for the matched values (for example `Token::Value` needs a `u8` for it to be valid). To do this the value uses `Default::default()`. In the example of `Token::Value` this means the returned token would be `Token::Value(0)`.

## Types

The types returned from matches depend on what you're matching surprisingly. The following list should explain all of the possible options:
- Simple match not a call - Match type
  `[Token::OP]` returns `Token`
- Simple match call - Call struct name
  `[@RuleName]` returns `RuleName` or `Box<RuleName>` if self-referential
- Unwrapping match - Defined by the given unwrapped values
  `[MyEnum::MyVariant; _, u16]` returns `u16`
  `[MyEnum::MyVariant; u8, _]` returns `u8`
  `[MyEnum::MyVariant; u8, u16]` returns `(u8, u16)`

When these are wrapped in groups with modifiers (option, Kleene, and positive closures), the types are changed (`T` here indicates the type returned by the inner group):
- Option returns `Option<T>`
- Kleene closure and positive closure return `Vec<T>`
